The elderly carpenter and a group of disciples bid farewell to Ju, leaving this land that will soon descend into chaos.
Even though they have walked far, Ju can still hear their weeping. Many of them had been born under Ju's steps, and had confronted Feranmut and humanity both in order to stop the two sides from coming to conflict, in accordance with Ju's teachings. But now, war has come.
A war between man and Feranmut, a war between species, a war that promised no rest nor quarter.
And so, Ju took those that followed It, those who were close, to become Its elves, and 'drove them out'. This way, they would not have to suffer the pain of choice.
It was also so that It may implement what gave Its life meaning without burden. Those rules that had formed between It and them, and the vision of peace It had preached.
A low hum echoes across the land, and a mountain steadily emerges by Ju's side.
Once, They were as beasts, unthinking and uncommunicative. Humanity's arrival not only changed the land, but it also irreversibly changed how Feranmuts treated one another.
At the very least, in this age of imminent extinction, cooperation becomes a choice. Just as humanity behaves.
They sense the gaze of Sui falling upon Them, along with the hostility and pride within that gaze. As for Them, not even the most ancient and venerable Hou holds even a wisp of anger in Its heart.
The trickle humanity had fed Sui has matured after many years of evolution. Its curiosity and arrogance have changed It completely. Ju and Hou are well aware that It has long been the Feranmut who most resembles humanity. Its command over humanity, using them to slaughter Its kin? No different than any other king in human history.
But this is Its nature, Its governing rules, Its essence of being. With evolution as Its base, It was destined to look at Its kin from angles They could not perceive. In the aftermath of this inevitable clash of biology, Ju and Hou accept this outcome.
And so, after reprimanding this excessive, unnatural portion of evolution, They will give Their bodies unto Sui.
When nature's cycle renews // When the law nears perfection,
For in time, They shall return.
