On a dark and windy night, a small squad pursues bandits fleeing through the wasteland. Though they are quickly closing in on their quarry, the signal to retreat suddenly comes from behind them. Upon seeing their foe about to disappear into the darkness, the captain grits his teeth and shouts: 'Don't stop! Keep moving!'
Seeing the hesitation on his soldiers' faces, the captain flies into a rage. 'What, scared?!' He spurs his burdenbeast onwards, leaving his men no choice but to follow him.
Several days ago, the familiar Drillmaster Ling had left, and on the very same day, a new drillmaster came to replace her. 'New' only in a sense, for it was clear he was not new to the military. It is said that Yumen's army is only as strong as it is now thanks to his efforts, and the general even calls him 'Grandmaster' with respect. A few years ago, Ling had taken over his duties, which left him free to wander—'Now that he's back, doesn't that mean there's no place for Ling anymore? He literally kicked her out, didn't he?' Though none were bold enough to speak up, these thoughts had taken root in some of the soldiers' hearts. After all, none had ever met this 'Grandmaster' before. They have all been trained under Ling ever since they enlisted, and their deep respect for her gave rise to ill-will against the Grandmaster.
The bandits vanished between two high cliffs—a place ripe for an ambush. The captain's heart cries out a warning to him, but there already comes the whoosh of a loosed bowstring from above before he can call for retreat. One of his men falls to the ground. Figures flit across the cliffs, as the bandits stick out their heads to jeer at them.
The soldiers, to their credit, swiftly lift their shields to withdraw the wounded. However, the way out has been blocked by their foe. Rather than earning commendations tonight, they will be fighting for their lives. Just as the men prepare themselves to fight to the death, a painful scream is heard from the cliffs above, followed by a shout: 'They've got reinforcements! Move it!' The clamor of battle dies out, and once more, figures show up atop the cliff. It is the army of Yumen, and leading them is none other than their new drillmaster.
The squad is excused from execution only because their actions had not led to grave consequences, but there is no escaping the lash. The captain lines up with his men, all kneeling before the army, prepared to receive a whipping. That is when the Grandmaster steps forward.
The leader does not lift his head, believing he has come to personally flog them. It seems he has known of their grudges against him for a long while now, and no doubt he is here to humiliate them. He shuts his eyes tight, but no whip falls upon his back. Only when he hears the rustling of clothing does he open them to see the Grandmaster kneeling by his side, having also taken off his coat. With a clear voice, the Grandmaster speaks to the general: 'I take full responsibility for this careless planning, and failing to gain the trust of my men. Please punish me with them, General.'
The captain is shocked into speechlessness, but seeing that the general agrees as if it were just a normal request, he wonders whether this 'grandmaster' has always been this way. Considering how quickly he came to their rescue from that ambush, it is clear he foresaw them disobeying his orders, so why dispatch them to pursue the enemy in the first place? Was it... to give him a chance...?
There is no time to make his gratitude known, for the whip is already scourging their backs. Through the corner of his eye, the captain sees the Grandmaster staring quietly ahead. His hands rest atop his thighs as though he feels no pain, and he seems to harbor no anger or criticism either. Hoping for no yelps of pain to reach the Grandmaster's ears, the captain also did his best to keep a stiff upper lip.
That night, the sight of the captain kneeling before the Grandmaster's tent in apology was the talk of the entire garrison. Apparently, the Grandmaster invited the man into his tent, and as they spoke, he sent for someone to treat his wounds. The captain never told another soul what they discussed, but from then on, there was hardly a soldier in the army who was not loyal to the Grandmaster.
